import withPost from '../../components/with-post'

export const meta = {
  type: 'POST',
  title: 'What are you Maximizing? Why?',
  author: 'Ethan Mick',
  slug: 'what-are-you-maximizing',
  excerpt: '',
  createdAt: '2018-01-01T08:00:00.000Z'
}

export default withPost({ ...meta })

When I was growing up, it was always clear what the next step was.
Finish 8th grade, go to high school. Work hard in high school, do well
on the ACT/SAT. Get into college. Get a job. If there was any doubt
about any of that, my parents were there to reinforce their
expectations.

So I went to Rochester Institute of Technology, worked hard, interned at
Apple and Microsoft, and finally went to work at a small startup,
CloudMine.

But wasn't until recently I learned what question I should have been
asking myself:

**Why?**

Why am I doing what I'm doing? Why aren't I doing something else?

And then: What do I want to do next? More importantly... Why?

The only thing I knew leaving high school was I enjoyed programming. I
wanted to get better. At RIT, I *loved* programming. I *loved* software
engineering. Creating something from scratch and solving problems felt
empowering. I can solve anything! I could tackle any problem in the
world!

So... which problems do I tackle? Why?

Over the past few months, I've been reading quite a few books that
helped me think about that question. [Start With
Why](http://amzn.to/1SBa8eA) by Simon Sinek, [Delivering Happiness: A
Path to Profits, Passion, and Purpose](http://amzn.to/1S57azE) by Tony
Hsieh (CEO of Zappos), and [Wait But
Why](http://waitbutwhy.com/2015/11/the-cook-and-the-chef-musks-secret-sauce.html)
by Tim Urban. I've always thought about *what* I want to do next, but
these books made me think about *why* I wanted to do it.

It's a painful introspection. For the past year I had been trying so
hard to increase my salary. More money meant I was more successful...
right? But after reading [Startup L Jackson's post on getting
rich](http://startupljackson.com/post/135800367395/how-to-get-rich-in-tech-guaranteed),
I realized that may not be the case. He says:

> If you want to get rich, your best bet on a risk-adjusted basis is to
join a profitable and growing public company. Google for short. Make
$200-500k all-in a year, work hard and move up a level every 3-5 years,
sell options as they vest (in case you joined Enron), and retire at 60,
rich. This plan works every time.

I could probably go to Wall Street and make even more money faster.

The problem is... I don't want to. Neither of those sound very
appealing. My goals, the things I want to accomplish, didn't actually
have much to do with money. For example, I want to help make the
environment better. I think it's important. I think it's our duty. I
don't think enough people are working on fixing it. That goal, that
*vision*, doesn't require me to be rich first. I can go out and help
local clubs, for free, tomorrow. I can pick up twenty books and read
about ways to help. There's a lot I can do to fulfill that goal. Money
isn't necessary.

So if I don't want money... what do I want? And why do I want that? If
I'm not maximizing money... what am I maximizing? Time with my family?
Time with friends? Saving the environment? Working on reducing gun
violence? *Why* do I want it?

Tony Hsieh argues that if you keep asking "why", it eventually comes
back to "because that makes me happy."

I want to learn what makes me happy. This year I'm dedicating time to
learn what problems I want to help solve. Problems that I can be happy
working toward a solution. I'm not sure what those are yet, but I have
some good ideas.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I spent New Years with some friends whom I all love very much. We're
all trying to figure out life; what to do next, where to go, how to get
there, etc. It was fun to hear them talking about *what* they were up
to.

But I'd like to ask you all to think a little harder and ask yourself:
*Why* am I doing it?

What are your goals? What makes you happy? Where will that lead you? You
don't need to know *what* you are doing next. But knowing *why* you are
doing it will give you the confidence, courage, and determination to do
*what* you have to.

Ask yourself. Why? *Why?* **Why?**